Let's talk about reduce now reduce is probably the trickiest of all array methods.
So it's okay if it seems really overwhelming as we're going through it.
But I promise you that once it clicks it will make total sense and it's actually one of the most useful
array methods that we have in our repertoire as javascript developers.
So in order to understand it let's go into our browser.
Let's say I had some array which was equal to 1 2 3 4 5
let's say I wanted to add all the values inside of my array.
How would I do this.
Well we could write a for loop right where we add all the values together and end up with some final
value or this is actually the perfect time to use reduce reduce is a great array method to use when
we want to do two things.
The first is that we want to end up with one value in the end.
Right.
Not an array but some value in the end.
The second is when we want to persist the return or the outcome of iterating over our elements in each
subsequent iteration.
Now what do I mean by that.
That's a mouthful right.
Well let's take a look at how the code actually looks.
And then maybe it'll be better for us to understand let's say I call Ray dot reduce a red dot reduce
takes two arguments.
The last argument we won't focus on for now let's just focus on the first argument.
The first argument is a function and that function has two parameters.
The second parameter is the element itself.
So it's the current element that we're on that we're iterating over the first one is what's call the
accumulator.
Right.
The accumulator is exactly as it sounds.
It's the accumulated value of calling this function on every element before the one that we're currently
on.
So what we would do if we wanted to add all these numbers together is if we said accumulator plus our
current element
and what we would pass to our second argument is zero.
Now you might be wondering well what's the first value that accumulator has when we start at the first
element.
Well that's actually what the second argument is.
And that's why we pass at zero because we want to add all of these values together.
We want to start from zero.
And if we call this Oh I think I have an extra bracket by accident.
We will get 15.
Now let's walk through how this works.
So the first time this function gets called accumulator is zero.
Right.
1 and 1 is the current element.
So it will be 0 plus 1.
Right.
Which gives us a value of 1.
Then it moves on to the next element.
And here accumulator will get the return of our last function call on this element which is 1 so accumulator
is one current element is 2 and we'll get one plus two which equals three.
Right.
So 3 gets passed as the accumulator in the next element when this function is called and we'll get 3
or accumulator and 3 for current element.
So we get 3 plus three which is six which then gets passed as the accumulator for the next element which
is 4.
So accumulator of 6 current element of 4 6 plus 4 equals 10.
And then finally one more time on 5 or 10 is the accumulator the credit element is 5.
And that's how we end up with a value of 15 and this is how the reduced function works.
Now you don't necessarily have to start with zero.
Right.
We only did this because the purpose of what we were trying to achieve was to add all the values together
right in our array but if we wanted all this second arguments symbolizes is the first accumulator value.
When we get called on the first element so if I said that this was 10 what happens is that 10 gets passed
as the accumulator when this function first gets called on 1.
So it's 10 current element is 1 10 plus one is 11 which to get then passed as the accumulator when we
call it on to right.
Eleven current element is to eleven plus two thirteen and so on and so forth for each subsequent element
until we end up with twenty five.
So this is how we write reduce.
Now there's a lot more complicated ways that we can use reduce but the basics the fundamentals of how
reduce works is in what we just wrote
It's OK if you don't grab it all right away it's a lot and it's always one of the trickier parts of
understanding this specific array method.
Now we will definitely encounter more opportunities to use reduce throughout our course but right now
I want you to just maybe play around with some of this array that we already have right play around
with some of the numbers so that you get a familiar feel for it but in the future when we encounter
opportunities to use produce we'll definitely slow down and take a look at how we're writing our code
so we can better understand how to write reduce and when it's actually a good solution but understanding
reduce and knowing when to use it will be a very powerful tool in our careers as javascript developers.